Before we get started talking about LinkedIn specifically,
I wanted to talk a little bit about where LinkedIn fits into
the overall plethora of professional services websites out there.
Of course, one website that we've already discussed in depth on this Skillshare channel,
is upwork.com, the world's largest freelance marketplace.
Up until recently, upwork.com was my go-to website for finding freelance clients.
But once I started to learn which companies would benefit most from my services,
I decided to reach out to them directly via LinkedIn.
Whilst upwork.com and linkedIn.com can both be used to find freelance work,
the nature of each platform is quite different.
As mentioned, upwork.com is a freelance marketplace,
and linkedIn.com is a professional networking site.
The Upwork marketplace is centered around jobs with
two different types of accounts: clients, and freelancer.
On Upwork, only the freelancers have a profile,
and there's a set process to beginning any engagement,
with Upwork taking a cut of each job as their business model.
LinkedIn on the other hand,
is more like a social media platform.
Everyone on LinkedIn has a profile and the ability to create content.
That content is then delivered through the LinkedIn news feed,
just like you'd see on Facebook,
or other social media platforms.
Why would we use LinkedIn over upwork.com for finding freelance work?
I see there being two main benefits to using
LinkedIn over freelance marketplace websites.
Number 1, you can reach out to clients directly.
You don't have to wait for a position to be advertised, instead,
once you have a clear understanding of who you want to reach out to,
you can contact them directly rather than wait for a gig to become available.
Two, you can reach a much larger audience with your profile.
You can create contents to draw on your views,
increase your network, and create more chances for referral business.
The way I see it, having a presence on LinkedIn,
should be a long-term goal for anyone trying to build
their reputation in most professional services industries.